“Lovers of money”—that didn’t sound too bad.
I mean, compared to “betrayers,” “fierce,”
“slanderers,” and other traits
listed in 2 Timothy 3,
what’s so bad about being a lover of money?
A lot.
Once a person loves money
more than anything or anyone else,
it corrupts them.
For example,
let’s consider what lovers of money
have done—the effect on big business.
Now, businesses that produce a good product
at a fair price,
consumers and others appreciate.
However, when a business
is run by lovers of money,
they cut corners, they lie about risks,
and they accept or offer bribes
or basically do anything they can
to raise their stock price
or increase profits.
We’ve all seen the constant upgrades
and the completely false advertisements.
And many people today just accept that
as so common and so normal
that they say, “It’s just business.”
How have lovers of money
affected governments?
Well, when lovers of money get into power,
government for the people
becomes government for them.
Public money
is diverted into private bank accounts
that makes these politicians
and government leaders very wealthy
—the power that love of money has to corrupt
even the most well-meaning
men and women in politics.
We can see it in full effect around us.
It’s an everyday occurrence.
No government on earth
is immune to the effect
that lovers of money has on government.
In fact, the suffering of many people
around the world
can be traced back to greed
and lovers of money in government.
Well, what effect has lovers of money
had on Christendom and false religion?
Well, once Christendom’s priests or ministers
started to charge for their services
or press their congregations very hard
for money,
it had a corrupting influence
on the worship of God.
Money changed how religion worked.
It changed the relationship
between people and ministers
to their congregation.
I mean, to illustrate for a moment:
Think of a wife
that goes to her husband and hands him a bill
for all the work she’s done in the family,
and the husband turns around
and gives her a bill
for all the work he’s done in the family.
Do you think that might change
the relationship in the family
and about how they feel
about one another and the work they do?
Of course it would.
Jehovah inspired Paul
to see the corrupting influence
that lovers of money would have on religion
at 2 Timothy 4:3, 4
—2 Timothy 4:3, 4.
He says: “For there will be a period of time
“when they will not put up
with the wholesome teaching,
“but according to their own desires,
“they will surround themselves with teachers
to have their ears tickled.
“They will turn away
from listening to the truth
and give attention to false stories.”
Well, today, as mentioned in these verses,
many religions are based
on tickle-their-ears messages,
false stories, platitudes,
and kind of
feel-good-about-yourself messages.
You know, when I searched on the Internet
about the effect of money on religion,
I came across several websites
that explain how to form your own religion
(what to say and what to do),
with the whole purpose of getting rich.
So once a religion is run by lovers of money,
they’re no longer lovers of truth,
or lovers of God’s Word.
Sermons are no longer about Bible truth;
they’re more about what people
are willing to pay for.
People are even told
that they can buy God’s forgiveness.
Basically,
you can bribe God not to punish you.
It kind of goes like this: You’ve done bad.
God is going to punish you.
So give money to me and the church,
and God will forgive you.
You see, this scam and variations of it
have a long history.
Indulgences sold by the Catholic Church
back in the 16th century
are very good examples of such greed.
Indulgences were basically the church saying
that you can pay for God not to punish you.
The Awake!  of August 1989
explained how Martin Luther
felt about the Catholic Church
selling such indulgences.
It says: “The selling of indulgences
originated during the Crusades,
“when they were granted to believers
willing to risk their lives in a ‘holy’ war.
“[But] later they were extended to people
“offering financial support to the church.
“Soon, indulgences became
a convenient method of raising money . . . ,
“‘the bingo of the sixteenth century.’
“With the sharp tongue for which he
became noted,
“[Martin] Luther asked:
“‘If the pope does have the power
to release anyone from purgatory
“‘[basically on the basis
of indulgences of the money],
“‘why in the name of love
does he not abolish purgatory
by letting everyone out?’”
Well, this really should not surprise us.
The biggest bribe on record
was the one Satan offered to Jesus.
Satan said: ‘I will give you [bribe you]
‘all the kingdoms of the world
[basically pay you]
if you fall down and do
an act of worship to me.’
Now let’s contrast Satan’s
and Christendom’s view on love of money
with Jesus’ words at Matthew 10:8
—Matthew 10:8.
Now, here Jesus was giving some instructions
to his disciples about the message
they should give as they go out
and preach the Kingdom.
And he told them:
“Cure the sick, raise up the dead,
“make lepers clean, expel demons.
You received free, give free.”
Now, why, after stating
these beautiful, wonderful things
they could do for people,
would Jesus say something like,
“You received free, give free”?
Because Jesus knew that the love of money
could corrupt
these wonderful miracles
that they could do for others.
I mean, Jesus had seen how money
had corrupted many
over the years he had seen mankind.
For example, when he saw—
When Naaman wanted to give
expensive gifts to Elisha
because he had cured him of his leprosy,
Elisha would not have any of it.
See, Elisha knew that it was wrong
to try to profit from the operation
of God’s holy spirit.
Gehazi, though, couldn’t resist.
His love of money
totally corrupted his faithful service.
Of course, today,
we can’t cure leprosy or raise the dead.
But the lesson that Jesus gave here
at Matthew 10:8
is still very applicable to us:
“You received free, give free.”
It’s a clear message.
Don’t accept money
for the work of the holy spirit.
The Kingdom message and its blessings
are simply not for sale.
Now, we’re truly blessed to be part
of God’s spirit-directed organization,
who are lovers of God
rather than lovers of money.
We don’t have collections
at our meetings or our conventions.
Donations are made discreetly,
and funds are used wisely and modestly.
And we also follow
the Bible’s requirement for elders.
In 1 Timothy chapter 3,
it says that elders should not be
“a lover of money.”
See, how important it is that the elders
—those taking the lead—
should not be a lover of money!
Otherwise, it can corrupt
their relationship with the congregation.
Interestingly, that expression
that they should not be “a lover of money”
is the same expression
that’s used in 2 Timothy 3
about how other people
would be lovers of money,
and that’s the only time that expression
—“lovers of money”—
is used in the Scriptures.
See, when we see the corrupting influence
that lovers of money have had on business,
government, and false religion,
it teaches us a very powerful lesson.
Money has its proper place in our wallets
but not in our hearts.